It sounds maybe it's time for
the photoresistor,
okay, so I will warn you, once again,
there's a lot of things
I like about this kit.
The photoresistor does not look like the
normal photo resistors that you've seen.
If I pull up the schematic real quick,
that's what a photoresistor
looks normally, ours do not,
ours look like there's a whole thing
with a little clear plastic head.
As I go shuffle around my side table
over here, I will find it, but
it looks almost like a flat-topped LED.
All right, so this is our photoresistor,
now that you'll notice this one also
has the long pin and the short pins.
The long pin is what we put in first and
it's not dissimilar from the LED
with the addition of the fact that we also
then read somewhere in the middle there.
So I can go plug that one in,
I'm gonna try to just use two,
cuz I'm gonna be a little bit
careful with spacing,
cuz I have not taken a lot out yet,
which is intentional,
so that should be good.
Let's focus on the ground part first,
kind of do it backwards.
That's the ground, then there is a 10k
resistor kinda in the middle here.
I usually in this point had the wires
between the power rail and the component,
because I couldn't figure out how to
make Fritzing make them long enough.
So you can either jump over and
have an extra step, or
you can go directly with the resistor
over, let's see if I regret.
And then,
I'm gonna plug it into A1 here,
So insofar,
that it's called a photoresistor,
you can guess that it is a resistor in and
of itself.
So it's basically the more light we have,
the more the electricity really
can't go and so we get to read it.
All right, let's kind of
verify that any of this works,
because, again,
before I talk too much about it,
between live coding and
live wiring, the opportunity for
me to make boo-boos is high, right?
So one thing about the light sensor
is that there are lots of models,
but I think in this point we should
be fine, I plugged mine into pin 1.
And so I'm gonna do here is,
[SOUND] that's the wrong,
That's the client code, yes, it is the
wrong file, cuz I'm in the client code.
With any of this, we can go ahead and say,
Five, .Light,
And here, I'm just gonna start with just
saying pin: 'A1', now, I could just put
the A1 in there, I'm gonna show you
why I'm gonna do this in a second.
But first I wanna make sure that I have
not somehow totally messed this up.
So I'll get that kind of in place,
I have that saved,
I'll put the code right here for
now, it's way of help.
Say value and raw,
Actually, let's pull it in
from the light sensor itself.
All right, so now, we're gonna
see did I wire this up correctly?
Okay, I've got some light sensor in here,
there's apparently no raw on this one,
but we've got a value, which is
pretty high presently and ideally,
Interestingly, I think I might have it or
we're reading it slightly backwards.
So covering it when the value go higher,
but
I am getting a reading from
the sensor at the very least.
I don't know that bottle cap is
as effective as we want it to be.
Okay, so I've got to figure out for
a second,
why my value seems slightly
in the wrong direction.
But as I do that,
I also wanna point out something,
there's a lot of data coming
from here right now, right?
One of the things you can do with some
of the options in here is you've got two
other options you can give this, which is
frequency, which is how many milliseconds,
how often should we read this?
So hypothetically, as I go to look
at what I need to change here,
If I change this to 500, you'll notice,
The values are coming in at
a lot less rapid of a rate.
And so we've got that, and then also,
I can also give it a threshold.
And so I'm gonna go with 5,
don't emit another change unless
it's changed more than 5.
So if you're getting too much data,
you can kind of throttle it a little bit
between the frequency and the threshold.
Right, we're pulling this in
a lot more infrequently, so
it's going to find it every 200 or
also if it changes.
Right, but mine, theoretically, not the
worst thing in the world that's going in
the wrong direction, but let me take
a look at it and see if I can triage it.
For everyone,
I had two adjustment circuits slightly,
unclear where the operator error was.
It wasn't me staring when I wired it
up previously and making the diagram?
We don't know, and so
I had a suspicion when I was explaining,
I was like, something seems off.
And then faced with reality, it became
a lot clearer, which is power goes in,
goes through the photoresistor, right?
It's very much like
the potentiometer in a sense, right?
Before we had the knob, now, we are just
in the same way with the button by
stabilizing it with the resistor.
But power goes in, a certain amount gets
through and what we read as the result,
it's kinda like the middle pin
of the potentiometer basically.
So I did have to adjust this slightly to
kind of have the power, go directly into
the positive of the LED, and then I read
right before it goes to the ground, and
that spiritually makes more sense.
So now if I go back,
we'll start that back up,
And I've got,
other than the server starting up,
some ambient light hand over,
it drops to almost nothing.
Let's do the ultimate scientific result
of grabbing my phone and turning on
the flashlight, And watching it go up to
nearly 1,000, and pulling it back down.
I don't think there is a scale
on this one out of the box, so
we might have to write
a little bit of our own code.
Let's see what the methods on a light are,
so we'll say on change, I'm just gonna
curious light., It does seem
to know a lot what's going on here,
it just got everything involved here.
So let's see, we'll say,
we're hovering around 50 normally, right,
let's say that that is our medium,
and we'll say that 100 is, right?
So along those lines,
let's pull this into where we had,
This other code, and I guess,
we're gonna get rid of letting
the potentiometer change.
And we're gonna go with
the light in this case, but
we will steal this code right here.
But not the potentiometer, let's
change this to ('light', and we'll do,
In this case, we'll omit that as we
go through, we'll start with that and
tweaking the grade exactly how we
want it is probably an exercise for
the reader, because that's
just me being very particular.
So say light, we've got the value
coming in, let's just go for
it all the way, let's just live our best
lives and we'll do it live as I say.
We got a collapse, and
we'll start back up again now.
All right, So go back over,
cover it up, a page gets dark,
take my hand off,
it gets lighter, point my phone at it,
We're all the way on, so
depending on the light in the room and,
yes, you could adjust those values
somewhere between 1024, or 1023 and
0, it's something a little bit more, light
goes on, light goes off, cover it up.
Now, my web page is less about what
the user wants and more about what I want,
cuz that doesn't have enough
in my day-to-day job.
And so we've got this idea that
the sensor can now control things in
the DOM based on everything
we have in place.
There are some other sensors in here,
I will warn you,
there's a temperature sensor,
there's a tilt sensor.
Do you know the difference between what
I just did with the light sensor is and
what we would do with any
of those other sensors are?
Nothing.